Metrics Guide (#1799)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/general/metrics_guide.rst

.. _metrics_guide:

====================
Metrics Guide
====================

This guide will help you understand how to control the metrics that validate and monitor your data with
Deepchecks.

> The assessment of how well the model performs should drive informed decision making regarding the usage of that model,

Author: @noamzbr IMO we should wait for the blogpost and then add something like "want to know more about metrics? here a link to our blog post about it"

> The assessment of how well the model performs should drive informed decision making regarding the usage of that model,

Reviewer: Not a contradiction, should rephrase the paragraph to be more concrete, and can also link to the blogpost

so we have to make sure that we measure the right things, i.e. the criteria that represnt tha key factors in the
decision making process.

**Structure:**

* `How can I use metrics with Deepchecks? <#how-can-i-use-metrics-with-deepchecks>`__
* `Default metrics <#default-metrics>`__
* `Alternative metrics <#alternative-metrics>`__
* `List of Supported Strings <#list-of-supported-strings>`__
* `Custom Metrics <#custom-metrics>`__

> How can I use metrics with Deepchecks?

Author: @noamzbr of the structure? Which section did you mean?

API for vision checks.
To use metrics with Deepchecks suites and checks you can use the defaults, that fits the most common usecase, or pass
alternative scorers that are more accurate for your specific usecase.

Default metrics
===============
All of our relevant checks come with default metrics.

The default scorers by task type are:

Tabular:

Classification, binary or multiclass averaged over the classes:

*   Accuracy
*   Precision
*   Recall

Multiclass classification per class:

*   F1
*   Precision
*   Recall

Regression:

*   Negative RMSE (negative so larger is better)
*   Negative MAE
*   R2

Vision:

Classification:

*   Precision
*   Recall

Object detection:

*   Mean average precision
*   Mean average recall

To run a check with the default metrics, run it without passing the scorers.

:doc:`ClassPerformance </checks_gallery/vision/model_evaluation/plot_class_performance>`:

.. code-block:: python

    check = ClassPerformance()
    result = check.run(train_ds, test_ds, mnist_model)

Alternative metrics
===================
Sometimes the defaults aren’t good enough to describe the specifics of the problem.

> If this is the case, you can pass a list of metrics or a dict in the format {metric name: metric} as a parameter to the

Author: @noamzbr it's supposed to work that way but currently not all checks support strings, it will be correct https://github.com/deepchecks/deepchecks/issues/1743

> If this is the case, you can pass a list of metrics or a dict in the format {metric name: metric} as a parameter to the

Reviewer: So I guess best we write it now as it's supposed to be

check.

The metrics on the list can be existing
`Ignite metrics <https://pytorch.org/ignite/metrics.html#complete-list-of-metrics>`__ or
`Sklearn scorers <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/model_evaluation.html>`__ or
or a string from Deepchecks' `supported strings <#list-of-supported-strings>`__ or your own implementations.

.. code-block:: python

   train_ds, test_ds = adult.load_data(data_format='Dataset', as_train_test=True)
   model = adult.load_fitted_model()

   scorer = ['precision_per_class', 'recall_per_class', 'fnr_macro']
   check = TrainTestPerformance(scorers=scorer)
   result = check.run(train_ds, test_ds, model)
   result

List of Supported Strings
=========================
.. list-table:: Supported Strings
   :widths: 25 75
   :header-rows: 1

>    * - String

Reviewer 2: I would name all metrics, we have only like 10 of them across all tasks. If divided into categories and mention averaging method in a different section I think it would be fine.
Anyway not that critical to me

>    * - String

Author: @noamzbr I copied the list from the scorers module

>    * - String

Author: @noamzbr @Nadav-BarakIMO we should have the full list so the user can copy-paste the strings without too much thought.

>    * - String

Reviewer: Here you wrote the combinations only for fpr fnr tnr, not for precision recall and f1. If you had done that, you'd have gotten an extremely long list. I still think that listing all combinations can't be done, but it must be made clear what metrics have these combinations (fpr fnr tnr precision recall f1) and which don't (e.g. accuracy) and which have a different mechanism (e.g. auc), when the latter need to be added here.

Also, still think we should do my points 1&2 from the start of this thread

     - Metric
   * - 'neg_rmse'
     - negative root mean squared error (Sklearn)
   * - 'neg_mae'
     - negative mean absolute error (Sklearn)
   * - 'precision_per_class'
     - precision per class - no averaging (results are returned per class)
   * - 'recall_per_class'
     - recall per class - no averaging
   * - 'f1_per_class'
     - F-1  per class - no averaging
   * - 'fpr_per_class'
     - False Positive Rate per class - no averaging
   * - 'fpr'
     - False Positive Rate - binary
   * - 'fpr_macro'
     - False Positive Rate - macro averaging
   * - 'fpr_micro'
     - False Positive Rate - micro averaging
   * - 'fpr_weighted'
     - False Positive Rate - weighted macro averaging
   * - 'fnr_per_class'
     - False Negative Rate per class - no averaging
   * - 'fnr'
     - False Negative Rate - binary
   * - 'fnr_macro'
     - False Negative Rate - macro averaging
   * - 'fnr_micro'
     - False Negative Rate - micro averaging
   * - 'fnr_weighted'
     - False Negative Rate - weighted macro averaging
   * - 'tnr_per_class'
     - True Negative Rate per class - no averaging

>    * - 'tnr'

Reviewer 2: use specificity instead of tnr (maps to the same thing in backend)

Author: @Nadav-Barak I copies the list from the scorers module

Reviewer 2: Can see at line 117 at scorers.py, we have mechanism to support in both specificity and sensitivity across all averaging methods

     - True Negative Rate - binary
   * - 'tnr_macro'
     - True Negative Rate - macro averaging
   * - 'tnr_micro'
     - True Negative Rate - micro averaging
   * - 'tnr_weighted'

>      - True Negative Rate - weighted macro averaging

Reviewer 2: We also support sensitivity

.. _metrics_guide:

====================
Metrics Guide
====================

In this guide we'll explain how to customize the metrics that deepchecks uses to validate and monitor your model.
Controling the metrics helps you shape the checks and suites accoring to the specifics of you use case.

**Structure:**

* `How can I use metrics with Deepchecks? <#how-can-i-use-metrics-with-deepchecks>`__
* `Default metrics <#default-metrics>`__
* `Alternative metrics <#alternative-metrics>`__
* `List of Supported Strings <#list-of-supported-strings>`__
* `Custom Metrics <#custom-metrics>`__

How can I use metrics with Deepchecks?
======================================
Metrics in deepchecks are designed around the sklearn scorer API for tabular checks and are based on the Torch Ignite
metric API for vision checks.

Default metrics
===============

> All of our relevant checks, meaning checks evaluating model performance, such as SingleDatasetPerformance, come with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the checks that evaluate model performance, such as SingleDatasetPerformance, come with
```

     - False Positive Rate - micro averaging
   * - 'fpr_weighted'
     - False Positive Rate - weighted macro averaging
   * - 'fnr_per_class'
     - False Negative Rate per class - no averaging
   * - 'fnr'
     - False Negative Rate - binary
   * - 'fnr_macro'
     - False Negative Rate - macro averaging
   * - 'fnr_micro'
     - False Negative Rate - micro averaging
   * - 'fnr_weighted'
     - False Negative Rate - weighted macro averaging
   * - 'tnr_per_class'
     - True Negative Rate per class - no averaging
   * - 'tnr', 'specificity'
     - True Negative Rate - binary
   * - 'tnr_macro', 'specificity_macro'
     - True Negative Rate - macro averaging
   * - 'tnr_micro', 'specificity_micro'
     - True Negative Rate - micro averaging
   * - 'tnr_weighted', 'specificity_weighted'
     - True Negative Rate - weighted macro averaging

In addition to the strings listed above, all Sklearn
`scorer strings
<https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/model_evaluation.html#the-scoring-parameter-defining-model-evaluation-rules>`__
apply.

Custom metrics
==============
You can also pass your own custom metric to relevant checks and suites.

Custom metrics should follow the

> `Ignite Metric <https://pytorch.org/ignite/metrics.html#how-to-create-a-custom-metric>`__ API for computer vision or

Reviewer: Perhaps this is the place to explain what scorers and ignite metrics are, rather than mentioning it in the "How can I use metrics with Deepchecks?" section (which I think should be removed)

What I mean is that in no place we explain that a scorer is a function with the signature f(model, x, y) rather than the more intuitive f(y_true, y_pred) that people probably expect for metrics.

.. _metrics_guide:

====================
Metrics Guide
====================

> In this guide we'll explain how to customize the metrics that deepchecks uses to validate and monitor your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we'll explain how to customize the metrics that deepchecks uses to validate and monitor your model.
```

> Deepchecks.

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
```

.. _metrics_guide:

====================
Metrics Guide
====================

> In this guide we'll explain how to customize the metrics that deepchecks uses to validate and monitor your model.

Author: It was mentioned until @noamzbr asked me to remove it

> In this guide we'll explain how to customize the metrics that deepchecks uses to validate and monitor your model.

Reviewer: Sol sorry I don't remember what was the original text mentioning this. Can you write it here?

Controlling the metrics helps you shape the checks and suites according to the specifics of you use case.

**Structure:**

* `Default metrics <#default-metrics>`__
* `Alternative metrics <#alternative-metrics>`__
* `List of Supported Strings <#list-of-supported-strings>`__
* `Custom Metrics <#custom-metrics>`__

Default metrics
===============
All of the checks that evaluate model performance, such as SingleDatasetPerformance, come with
default metrics.

> The default scorers by task type are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default metrics by task type are:
```

Tabular
_______

> Classification, binary or multiclass averaged over the classes:

Reviewer: I think we should write here for each metric what is it's "deepchecks name", or what is the string that will produce it. For example, the recall in this section is "macro_averaged_recall" and the next one is "recall_per_class"

*   Accuracy
*   Precision
*   Recall

Multiclass classification per class:

*   F1
*   Precision
*   Recall

Regression:

*   Negative RMSE (negative RMSE so that the convention that greater is better is kept)
*   Negative MAE
*   R2

Vision
______

Classification:

*   Precision
*   Recall

Object detection:

*   Mean average precision
*   Mean average recall

To run a check with the default metrics, run it without passing any value to the "scorer" parameter. For example:

:doc:`ClassPerformance </checks_gallery/vision/model_evaluation/plot_class_performance>`:

.. code-block:: python

    check = ClassPerformance()
    result = check.run(train_ds, test_ds, mnist_model)

Alternative metrics
===================
Sometimes the defaults don't fit the specifics of the use-case.
If this is the case, you can pass a list of supported metric strings or a dict in the format {metric name: metric} as a
parameter to the check.

> The metrics in the dict can be existing:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``metric`` in the dict can be any of the following:
```

Author: @shir22 I disagree because after the list there's "or your own implementation"

Reviewer 3: The original wording doesn't sound valid (=and I'm not sure if it is grammatically correct.
Feel free to change to something else if you don't like the suggested one.

*   `Ignite metrics <https://pytorch.org/ignite/metrics.html#complete-list-of-metrics>`__ for vision.
    An Ignite Metric is a class with the methods: reset, compute, and update, that iterates over batches of data and
    aggregates the result.
*   `Sklearn scorers <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/model_evaluation.html>`__ for both vision and tabular.
    An Sklearn Scorer is a function that accepts the parameters: (model, x, y_true), and returns a score with the
    convention that higher is better.

> *   strings from Deepchecks' `supported strings <#list-of-supported-strings>`__ for both vision and tabular.

Reviewer: Have this bullet be first?

> or `your own implementation <#custom-metrics>`__.

Reviewer: Not 100% clear what is the distinction between passing your own sklearn scorer / ignite metric (like you show in the end of this file), and actually implementing your own code (not shown here, meaning implementing your own code with the appropriate api).

Author: @noamzbr WDYM by "not shown here"? I gave 2 code examples: 1 for tabular and 1 for vision

Reviewer: Yes but you didn't give an example of a real custom metric - e.g. implementing your own function that has the signature (model, X, y) but is not built using make_scorer. Not saying we should necessarily do an example, but that this is a viable option should be explicitly mentioned.

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 3: For this code block and the two ones at the end - 
Check out the existing rst files with code (latest one is Nadav's supported models docs. there are also some of the "integrations" docs - I think the airflow one and maybe a few more) - that put the code in a separate .py file (that isn't included directly in the docs) and here just include the code block.
Moving it to that format verifies that we can test the code and see that it runs (or breaks if there are API changes).

Reviewer: As we clarified yesterday it won't really run yet, but will give us the option to test this later on

   train_ds, test_ds = adult.load_data(data_format='Dataset', as_train_test=True)
   model = adult.load_fitted_model()

   scorer = ['precision_per_class', 'recall_per_class', 'fnr_macro']
   check = TrainTestPerformance(scorers=scorer)
   result = check.run(train_ds, test_ds, model)

>    result

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   result.show()
```

List of Supported Strings
=========================
.. list-table:: Supported Strings
   :widths: 25 75 75
   :header-rows: 1

   * - String
     - Metric
     - Comments
   * - 'neg_rmse'
     - negative root mean squared error

>      - Sklearn

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - sklearn
```

Author: @shir22 it's a package name, names should start with a capital letter

Reviewer 3: If you want to write it with a caps then do use the package name which is scikit-learn (which they do also spell without a caps, but can work both ways)

   * - 'neg_mae'
     - negative mean absolute error

>      - Sklearn

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - sklearn
```

Author: @shir22 it's a package name, names should start with a capital letter

Reviewer 3: see previous

>    * - 'precision_per_class'

Reviewer: Also recall & precision need "suffixes apply as with 'fpr'"

     - precision per class - no averaging (results are returned per class)
     -
   * - 'average_precision_per_class'
     - average precision for object detection
     - only for object detection
   * - 'recall_per_class' , 'sensitivity_per_class'
     - recall per class - no averaging
     -
   * - 'average_recall_per_class'
     - average recall for object detection
     - only for object detection
   * - 'f1_per_class'
     - F-1  per class - no averaging
     -
   * - 'fpr_per_class'
     - False Positive Rate per class - no averaging
     -
   * - 'fpr'
     - False Positive Rate - binary
     -
   * - 'fpr_macro'
     - False Positive Rate - macro averaging
     -
   * - 'fpr_micro'
     - False Positive Rate - micro averaging
     -
   * - 'fpr_weighted'
     - False Positive Rate - weighted macro averaging
     -
   * - 'fnr'
     - False Negative Rate - binary
     - suffixes apply as with 'fpr'
   * - 'tnr', 'specificity'
     - True Negative Rate - binary

>      - suffixes apply as with 'fpr'

Reviewer: Think we also need to note auc and accuracy in this table

Author: @noamzbr in which file are they?

Reviewer: They are built-in in sklearn, but they are important so IMO we should mention them

> In addition to the strings listed above, all Sklearn

Reviewer: Maybe put this comment at the head of this section

Reviewer 3: +1

> In addition to the strings listed above, all Sklearn

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the strings listed above, all sklearn
```

`scorer strings
<https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/model_evaluation.html#the-scoring-parameter-defining-model-evaluation-rules>`__
apply.

> Custom metrics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom Metrics
```

==============
You can also pass your own custom metric to relevant checks and suites.

Custom metrics should follow the
`Ignite Metric <https://pytorch.org/ignite/metrics.html#how-to-create-a-custom-metric>`__ API for computer vision or

> `Sklearn scorer <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.make_scorer.html>`__ API for tabular.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`sklearn scorer <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.make_scorer.html>`__ API for tabular.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: add a small title for each of these examples
